Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain an action, sci-fi,
and thriller film called “The Call Up."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Carl Anderson is a very skilled gamer who
lives alone in his apartment.
He wakes up to an alarm, which reminds him
of an important event, where he is recruited
along with other elite gamers.
Excitedly, he makes his way through the busy
streets and enters a large building.
Other players, Shelly, Marco, Andre, Edward,
Zahid, and Taylor, are waiting for the appointment
to begin when Carl and Adam arrive.
All of them observe the place, confused about
the recruitment.
Out of nowhere, a voice from the intercom
welcomes them to Beta Testing; all of them
must sign in on the tablets provided for the
meeting to officially start.
They are each assigned individual lockers
where they should deposit their valuables
and electronic devices.
After the sign-in process, they are instructed
to wear motion-capture suits for them to join.
As they change into uniforms, Shelly shares
a brief conversation with Carl; she notices
burn marks on him, but because the game is
about to commence, they do not have a chance
to talk about it.
All eight of them enter a room where a machine
scans them as they state their gamer names.
After, they are given technologically advanced
gaming suits; these armors provide the closest
possible experience to modern warfare.
Part of the suit is a helmet that secures
itself in the neck, chin, and jaw, restraining
them from removing it.
Meanwhile, Zahid, the only Muslim player involved,
ironically chose his gamer name thinking that
it would be kept anonymous, and he refuses
to wear the armor that labels him as a terrorist.
He attempts to walk away, but the doors remain
locked, despite his pleads of being let out.
Shelly convinces him to participate in the
game, saying they all understand that he meant
for the name to be ironic.
A bit comforted by her words, Zahid calms
down and suits up.
Once everyone is ready, the room where they
are stationed is replaced by a computer simulation
depicting a post-apocalyptic setting.
Amazed by this, all of them get giddy in their
new gear as well.
Carl tries to observe the place, opens his
visor, and sees the office as is, which means
that everything is just projected, and closes
his visor again.
As they look outside, a war-torn city is in
front of them.
While the other players enjoy the high-tech
features of the suit and the office, Zahid
is still concerned about the whole recruitment,
telling Carl that joining is a big mistake.
In a separate conversation, Shelly notices
that her tattoo has disappeared, thinking
that it is far from impossible.
Suddenly, a simulated sergeant appears, calling
their attention and instructing them to fall
in line.
The sergeant acts aggressively toward them
as if he is a real person.
To check, Shelly tries to touch him and confirms
that he is a simulation.
The sergeant brings them to a room where they
collect their weapons and test them out.
Andre, who used to be a soldier, says that
the weapon is very realistic.
After the trials, the sergeant explains that
it will cost them their armor when a bullet
hits them once.
He then demonstrates what will happen to Zahid;
the sergeant shoots him, and expectedly, the
armor disappears.
After the demonstration, he reminds them that
they are only given one armor during the game
and distributes tubes they can use once they
get hit.
For the first round, the sergeant explains
that a group of highly trained terrorists
overruns the building; their job is to take
them out and clear the path to the bottom
of the building, starting at the 25th floor.
He also adds that the gamer with the highest
score wins.
After the briefing, the voice counts to the
last seconds before the Call Up begins.
Andre leads the team given his combat expertise,
whereas Marco, Edward, and Adam follow him
intently, while the rest follow.
Out of nowhere, an enemy appears to shoot
the gamers.
Luckily, they can take cover as Andre shoots
him down, making them advance to the next
round.
As they move down to the lower floor, the
group encounters a roadblock, a live wire
with high voltage.
They safely pass through and collect more
advanced weapons on the 24th floor.
Only four are available, so Andre, Marco,
Edward, and Adam collect it, and Andre teaches
them how to use it properly.
After Marco’s first kill, more shootings
commence, and they try to make their way to
a doorway.
Adam spots an enemy sitting in a room and
attempts to shoot him multiple times, but
his aim is weak, and all the bullets miss
him.
The enemy gets up to shoot Adam in return,
but Andre saves him, losing his armor in the
process.
Taylor becomes increasingly terrified and
reveals she just took her friend's place and
is not actually a gamer.
To comfort her, Shelly says that it is just
a game and that she will protect her until
the game ends.
She aims at one of the enemies patrolling
the room but hesitates to shoot.
However, the enemy notices her and approaches
their hiding place quietly.
Fortunately, Carl is alerted, making him plant
his first kill.
Little does he know, another enemy is hiding
for backup and shoots Carl twice, wounding
him.
Shelly comes to his rescue and is worried
when Carl is wounded and says the suit’s
feedback caused him actual pain.
Shelly removes her visor, seeing that Carl
is unwounded, so she removes his visor as
well.
He is still in pain as he says that something
is seriously wrong.
Andre enters the room and injects the tube
that was given to them earlier to relieve
Carl from the pain, this seems effective as
the wound disappears, but he remains nauseous.
He repeatedly says that it is not a game,
so the group gathers around to try and figure
out what is going on.
Carl lets them all know that the pain came
from the suit and that they have to remove
it as soon as possible.
No matter how much they try, the suits are
locked and unremovable.
The group gets into an argument after Marco
and Zahid accuse Andre of knowing about the
experiment because of his exemplary skills
and military background, so he walks out.
While in a separate room, the enemies respawn
and get back up.
One of them approaches Andre, who apparently
cannot see them.
He hears a weapon behind him and lowers his
visor, only to find an enemy that shoots him
twice.
Because he gave the tube to Carl, he has nothing
to inject himself with, causing him extreme
pain.
The rest of them hear the gunshots and wear
the visor again, when moments later, Edward
gets shot, causing the others to run away.
Taylor runs to the staircase but is blocked
by the live wire; hopelessly scared, she screams
to let her out of the game.
While Andre drags himself out of the room,
Adam throws a grenade at the enemies, which
causes a loud explosion.
The voice then announces that the second round
has ended, giving Adam the highest score.
Meanwhile, Andre’s helmet lets out some
alarm before it electrocutes him.
The group finds his body and realizes that
their helmets have been programmed to deliver
a deadly shock on their character's death.
Shelly tries to revive Andre, but it is too
late.
Desperate to have the suit off, Zahid asks
Carl to remove and smash his helmet, which
he cannot do.
Before they can get the helmet off, the sergeant
enters the room to beat Zahid and warns them
all against further tampering.
With no other choice, they have to play the
game and go to the next level.
They reach the 19th floor safely, where the
sergeant awaits their arrival.
He lets them know that a gas leak is present
at the current level, limiting them to using
only knives.
Looking out the window, Taylor cries out of
fear, but again, Shelly tells her to stay
behind her, as she will get her out of the
building in no time.
Already on the 17th floor, the game continues
while the group gets more experience in shooting.
However, an enemy shoots Adam, throwing him
across the room and causing him much pain.
As a nurse, Shelly’s instinct is to rescue
him, so Carl looks out for her but gets shot
in the process.
Seeing her two teammates injured, she has
a dilemma on who to give the tube to, but
luckily, Marco injects his on Carl, and Shelly’s
on Adam.
They clear the level again, with Marco earning
the highest points.
Afterwards, Zahid overlooks the busy city
in a desperate desire to be outside.
He and Carl attempt to break a window that
slightly cracks using a photocopy machine.
Unfortunately, the sergeant appears before
they complete the task; he beats Zahid recklessly
and kicks him down the stairs, causing Zahid
to break his leg.
The sergeant reminds them that the following
violation will result in death.
As the next level is activated, Zahid realizes
his teammates cannot carry him to the end
of the game, so he stays behind as the others
continue.
Shelly is hesitant about leaving him behind,
but she assures him that they will come back
for him.
The group is now on the 11th floor, where
they find a weapon in a box.
Edward gets a hold of it first, but Marco
snatches it out of his hands; at this point,
it is clear who has the authority to lead.
Not long after, an enemy shoots Marco on the
lower part of his body, which causes a commotion
among them.
They all take cover, and Taylor becomes separated
from the group as she hides in a bathroom.
With a knife being her only weapon, the situation
grows out of her favor, and she ends up crying
in a cubicle.
Once Marco’s strength is regenerated, Shelly
realizes that Taylor is now out of sight,
she calls out for her, but there is no response.
An enemy enters the bathroom, where Taylor
is heard whimpering.
Forced to take defense to save herself, she
kills an enemy on her own and becomes more
confident.
After that level, the group takes a break
to save energy for the next one.
After sharing about their lives and what they
do, the team realizes they were picked not
because they were elite gamers but because
they have one common denominator: they are
all loners.
The chances of anyone looking for them when
they are gone are low, saving the company
from any legal matters.
More determined to defeat the company, they
advance to the next level.
Back on the higher floor, an unseen enemy
approaches Zahid as he lays on the floor and
shoots him to death.
On the 9th floor, the group sees the sergeant’s
silhouette beating someone up.
He reveals a captive enemy and instructs the
players to torture him for information on
a bomb wired to the foundations of the building.
If it explodes, the building will collapse,
which will mean death for the team.
Only the captive knows the code for disarming
it, and they have to extract that information
from him through any means necessary.
Edward volunteers and proceeds to torture
him further as they are in a race with time.
After several jolts of electricity, the captive
cannot take it any longer and gives a password
“pushkin.”
Adam inputs the word “pushkin” to the
computer console when suddenly the lights
shut down.
Instead of being put to safety, an explosive
device in the basement is initiated and starts
a 30-minute countdown before it detonates.
The captive laughs at them for being fooled
and believing that the keyword would leave
them to safety.
Out of anger, Taylor shoots him dead, which
is highly unexpected of her.
Marco becomes agitated and aggressive toward
Adam, whom he blames for putting them in a
dangerous situation.
When Shelly tries to stop him, she gets punched
by him as well.
Moments later, the sergeant calls out for
them while he holds a door; they all run to
an elevator to a lower floor, unsure what
will welcome them.
Marco grabs the door as everyone exits, but
it suddenly closes when it is Adam’s turn.
His hatred toward him grows, making Adam fear
for his life.
They both descend further to the third floor
while Shelly, Carl, Edward, and Taylor continue
clearing an upper level.
Now that the bomb is down to 24 minutes, they
feel more urgency to get to the lower floor.
Meanwhile, Marco and Adam are still on their
own when they hear distant noises of enemies
from another room.
Marco uses Adam as bait for the enemies as
they advance, leaving Adam to die when he
is fatally shot.
It causes Adam to be in a state of panic before
being electrocuted by the helmet.
Despite being saved, he breaks into tears
out of guilt.
On the upper floor, the group is still ambushed
by enemies as they run out of bullets.
While the enemies are busy shooting, Taylor
decides to gather medical kits alone.
She flees from the scene and goes to a room
where a medical tube lies.
As she turns back, Marco commands her to hand
over the tube, but she refuses.
He shoots her and says that she reminds him
of his ex-wife, and walks out of the room.
Carl calls out for her, and he sees Marco
leave a room; he instantly suspects that Marco
is behind her death after seeing "Atlas" written
in Taylor's blood.
Vengeful and filled with rage, Carl attacks
Marco and gets in a brawl with him that damages
his helmet and causes the sergeant to walk
in and kill Marco.
With only the three of them alive, Carl, Shelly,
and Edward make their way to the basement
floor as the voice announces that they are
on the final level.
They reload weapons before taking down four
enemies in an ambush.
The shootout lasts for minutes, which takes
their time to disarm the bomb.
Down to the last three minutes, a bipod-mounted
machine gun shoots both Carl and Shelly, leaving
them helpless.
Carl sacrifices himself to save Shelly by
using the last tube on her; she holds his
hand as she looks at him with his dying breath.
During that, Edward manages to kill the machine
gunner using a rocket launcher and runs to
the bomb, shutting it down just before it
explodes.
The two of them are the remaining survivors
of the game; the sergeant walks in and congratulates
both of them.
Shelly watches Edward recite the victory speech
and realizes he memorizes it by heart, meaning
he must be the inside guy.
She is still not relieved after being alive
and surviving the horrors of the game.
The graphics lift, making the office go back
to normal again when security guards enter
the room and hand Edward refreshments as if
they serve him.
The guards tranquilize Shelly and leave her
unconscious in the basement.
She then wakes up earlier than expected, only
to find the others being body-bagged, and
Edward tells her that she's won the game before
giving her a large bag full of money.
Although fearful of her life, she still threatens
to reveal Edward's involvement in the brutal
murders, but he says nobody will believe her.
As one guard approaches her again, she is
able to inject the tranquilizer into him and
grabs his pistol, killing the remaining guards
in a shootout.
The sounds of the bullets worry Edward, anxiously
waiting for his guards to show up unharmed.
However, Shelly emerges from the dark and
points the gun directly at him as he appeals
for mercy.
Feeling betrayed, she is insistent that the
game must never happen again, shoots him,
and leaves peacefully without the money.